Two Israelite men
sneak into the city of Jericho.
The men are spies.
They take refuge in a place
where they feel no one will notice them
—the home of a prostitute, Rahab.
And little does Rahab know
how the visit
of these two men will affect her life.
But someone recognizes the spies,
and they notify the king.
The king sends men
to take the spies into custody.
As the king’s men bang on the door,
Rahab is confronted
with a life-or-death decision
—a decision that will affect her livelihood
and the lives of everyone in her family.
Will she take a stand for Jehovah’s people,
or will she side with the king of Jericho?
As you watch the following video,
imagine the challenges that Rahab faced
and notice what helped her
to make a life-saving decision.
Jericho was doomed.
People were scared.
When the Israelite men showed up at my door,
there was barely time to think.
But I knew what was at stake.
Even as a young girl,
I had heard all the stories.
Jehovah wasn’t like the other gods.
He had dried up the waters of the Red Sea
and given his people victory
over the Amorites.
If I helped these men,
I knew Jehovah would help me.
For the first time in my life,
I was standing with Jehovah’s people
on Jehovah’s side.
And my faith was being rewarded.
The spies were probably
the first Israelites that Rahab had ever met.
Yet, she was convinced
that if she helped the two men,
Jehovah would help her.
Why did she feel that way?
Please open your Bibles
to Hebrews chapter 11,
and we’re going to read verse 31.
And here we find the answer
to that question in a single word.
Hebrews 11:31 says:
“By faith Rahab the prostitute
“did not perish
with those who acted disobediently,
because she received
the spies in a peaceable way.”
Yes, Rahab took a decisive stand
based on her faith
in what she had heard about Jehovah
—how he had delivered
his people at the Red Sea
and how he had given them
victories over nearby kings.
The account in Joshua chapter 2
describes the significant sequence of events.
Rahab had already hidden
the spies on her roof
before the king’s men arrived.
And after sending the king’s men away,
she went back up to the roof
to talk to the spies.
There she explained to them
the reasons for her faith,
and she expressed confidence
that Jehovah is the true God
and that Jehovah would give his people
victory over Jericho.
Only then did she ask
the spies for protection
for herself and her family.
So Rahab’s faith
was not based on the promise of a reward.
Rather, her faith
was based on her firm conviction
that Jehovah is the almighty God.
Rahab’s faith gave her courage
to hide and protect the spies.
And then her faith moved her
to obey the spies’ unusual instructions.
In the following dramatization,
notice how a young Bible student
shows faith like that of Rahab.
There was no doubt about it.
I had found the truth.
So why did I feel so anxious?
I knew how Mom felt about the holidays.
But I also learned how Jehovah felt.
They displease him.
Some changes in my life were easy to make.
But I really needed Jehovah’s help
for what I had to do next.
I love my mom so much.
When I explained that I wouldn’t celebrate
the holidays anymore,
I could tell that she was hurt.
But I knew I was doing the right thing
and prayed that Jehovah
would help her understand.
It is going to be
a holiday season like no other
—like this 36 megapixel DSLR camera kit
for just $399.
Or would you believe this 65” 4K UHD
Smart TV is only $849?
Hurry in before it’s gone because these . . .
I admit I was surprised when she said
she wanted to learn more.
What a blessing!
Thanks to Jehovah, I had found the truth,
and now maybe my family would find it too.
Like Rahab, this Bible student
had already identified the true God.
She was convinced
that she had found the truth.
But now she needed to act on that faith,
and she was blessed
when she took a stand on Jehovah’s side.
Each of us must ask ourselves,
‘Am I standing firmly on Jehovah’s side?’
Perhaps you feel that you
don’t have enough knowledge to take a stand.
If so, imitate Rahab and do not hesitate.
What little knowledge Rahab had about Jehovah
was enough to give her faith
that moved her
to take prompt, obedient action.
But Rahab had to do more than protect
the spies and follow their instructions.
James 2:25
states that Rahab was
“declared righteous by [her] works.”
Remember, she was a prostitute
—a work that is not in harmony
with Jehovah’s righteous standards.
The Canaanites didn’t view
prostitution as something bad.
However, in order to be accepted
as one of Jehovah’s clean worshippers,
Rahab had to abandon her immoral way of life.
Likewise today, all who want
to please Jehovah must abandon
any lifestyles or conduct
that displeases him.
This includes sexual immorality,
idolatry, theft, drunkenness,
and customs that are not in harmony
with the Scriptures.
Rahab and her family certainly were grateful
that her faithful actions
led to their salvation.
But that wasn’t all that Jehovah
did to bless this woman of strong faith.
She also had the privilege
of becoming an ancestress
of the Messiah, Jesus Christ.
Therefore, may all of us
imitate the faith of Rahab.
And may that faith move us to action
to abandon immoral conduct
and false religious customs,
to take our stand for Jehovah
and his pure worship,
to continue to grow in knowledge of God,
and to draw closer to him
as our loving, heavenly Father.
If we show faith like that of Rahab,
we will enjoy
Jehovah’s favor and blessing forever.
Brother Kenneth Flodin,
a helper to the Teaching Committee,
will now present
the next talk of this symposium,
“Imitate Women of Strong Faith!—Hannah.”